.TH RBITE 1 "" "rbite" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rbite \- CLI client for RequestBite
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rbite
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rbite
is the command-line client for RequestBite, a service with tools that helps you
build and use HTTP-based APIs. The rbite command can expose locally running
services via both persistent (on paid plans) and short-lived ephemeral (free)
public URLs, resume a tunnel session that is still active, and manage
\fIinspector views\fR \(em persistent capture endpoints whose incoming webhook /
HTTP requests you can stream and inspect in real time.
.PP
On first run
.B rbite
creates a configuration file at
.I ~/.config/rbite/config.yaml
containing a unique client identifier.
Authentication tokens are stored in the same file after a successful login.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Account management
.TP
.B \-\-login
Open the default web browser and start login flow.
On completion the received credentials are saved to the configuration file.
Run this command before using any feature that requires an authenticated account.
.TP
.B \-\-switch\-accounts
Interactively select which account to make active when more than one account
has been authenticated.
The selected account ID is persisted to the configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-whoami
Print the name, email address, and active account of the currently authenticated
user.
If the access token has expired it is refreshed silently using the stored refresh
token.
.SS Request views
.TP
.B \-\-views\-list
Print all inspector views associated with the current account.
Each view has a unique ID, a name, and a capture URL to which HTTP requests can
be sent.
.TP
\fB\-\-views\-add\fR [\fIname\fR]
Create a new inspector view.
If \fIname\fR is not provided on the command line,
.B rbite
prompts for one interactively.
.TP
\fB\-\-views\-tail\fR [\fIview-id\fR]
Stream incoming HTTP requests for the given view in real time.
If \fIview-id\fR is omitted,
.B rbite
shows an interactive list of available views and prompts for a selection.
Press
.B Ctrl\-C
to stop streaming.
.TP
\fB\-\-views\-open\fR [\fIview-id\fR]
Open the capture URL of the specified view in the default web browser.
If \fIview-id\fR is omitted,
.B rbite
prompts for a selection from the available views.
.SS Tunnel management
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIdir\fR, \fB\-\-files\fR \fIdir\fR
Start a built-in file browser for the local directory \fIdir\fR and expose it
over an ephemeral tunnel.
The browser is read-only: visitors can navigate and download files but cannot
upload.
Mutually exclusive with
.B \-\-ephemeral
and
.BR \-\-resume .
.TP
\fB\-fw\fR \fIdir\fR, \fB\-\-files\-write\fR \fIdir\fR
Identical to
.B \-\-files
but also enables file uploads.
Visitors can upload files into any directory shown in the browser.
Mutually exclusive with
.B \-\-ephemeral
and
.BR \-\-resume .
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIpassphrase\fR, \fB\-\-passphrase\fR \fIpassphrase\fR
Protect the file browser with a passphrase.
Visitors must enter the passphrase in a modal dialog before they can browse or
download files.
Only valid with
.B \-f / \-\-files
or
.BR \-fw / \-\-files\-write .
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIdir\fR, \fB\-\-web\-server\fR \fIdir\fR
Start a plain web server rooted at the local directory \fIdir\fR and expose it
over an ephemeral tunnel.
Files are served exactly as they exist on disk, including directory listings for
paths that resolve to a directory.
No built-in web interface is added.
Mutually exclusive with
.B \-\-ephemeral
and
.BR \-\-resume .
.TP
\fB\-\-spa\fR [\fIindex-file\fR]
Enable single-page application mode when serving with
.BR \-w / \-\-web\-server .
Any request to a path that does not exist on disk is served \fIindex-file\fR
instead of a 404 response, allowing client-side routers to handle the path.
When \fIindex-file\fR is omitted it defaults to
.IR index.html .
Only valid with
.BR \-w / \-\-web\-server .
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIport\fR, \fB\-\-ephemeral\fR \fIport\fR
Create an ephemeral tunnel exposing the local TCP port \fIport\fR to the public
internet.
.B rbite
prints the assigned public URL and keeps the tunnel open until it is interrupted
with
.BR Ctrl\-C .
The tunnel session expires automatically after a fixed interval.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIname\fR, \fB\-\-tunnels\fR \fIname\fR
Connect to the permanent tunnel identified by \fIname\fR (or its UUID). The
tunnel must already exist and be enabled in RequestBite HQ
(https://hq.requestbite.com). Credentials are fetched from the API
automatically. Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-resume .
.TP
.B \-\-tunnels\-list
Print all permanent tunnels associated with the current account and
interactively show details for a selected tunnel.
Requires an authenticated session.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-resume
Resume the most recent tunnel session for this client if it has not yet expired.
.B rbite
retrieves the existing public URL from the server and reopens the tunnel
connection without allocating a new address.
Mutually exclusive with
.B \-\-ephemeral
and
.BR \-\-tunnels .
.TP
.B \-\-show\-qr
Print a QR code of the public tunnel URL to the terminal after the tunnel is
established.
Intended for use with
.BR \-\-ephemeral ,
.BR \-\-files ,
.BR \-\-files\-write ,
.BR \-\-web\-server ,
or
.BR \-\-resume .
Scan the code with a phone camera to open the tunnel URL directly on the device.
.TP
.B \-\-localhost\-rewrite
Rewrite localhost URLs in proxied response bodies and
.B Location
headers to the tunnel's public URL.
When the matched URL contains a port (e.g.\&
.IR http://localhost:8080 ),
the port is appended to the first subdomain label of the public URL
(e.g.\&
.IR https://name-8080.t.rbite.dev ).
Only valid with
.BR \-t / \-\-tunnels .
.TP
\fB\-\-tunnel\-server\fR \fIurl\fR
Override the tunnel server base URL.
Defaults to
.I https://api.t.rbite.dev
(or the value baked in at build time).
Useful for self-hosted deployments or local development.
.SS Other
.TP
.B \-\-no\-upgrade\-check
Suppress the automatic check for a newer version of
.B rbite
that normally runs at startup.
.TP
.B \-\-uninstall
Interactively remove the
.B rbite
binary, configuration directory, shell completion files, and man page.
Each step prompts for confirmation before proceeding.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print the version number, build timestamp, and git commit hash, then exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Expose the local server on port 3000:
.EX
rbite \-e 3000
.EE
.TP
Resume the last active tunnel session:
.EX
rbite \-\-resume
.EE
.TP
Share the current directory as a read-only file browser:
.EX
rbite \-f .
.EE
.TP
Share the current directory with upload support:
.EX
rbite \-fw .
.EE
.TP
Share a specific directory with upload support and show a QR code:
.EX
rbite \-\-files\-write ~/Downloads \-\-show\-qr
.EE
.TP
Share the current directory with a passphrase:
.EX
rbite \-f . \-p mysecret
.EE
.TP
Serve the current directory as a plain web server:
.EX
rbite \-w .
.EE
.TP
Serve a build directory in SPA mode (fallback to index.html):
.EX
rbite \-w ./dist \-\-spa
.EE
.TP
Serve a build directory in SPA mode with a custom entry point:
.EX
rbite \-w ./dist \-\-spa app.html
.EE
.TP
Connect a permanent tunnel named \fImyapp\fR:
.EX
rbite \-t myapp
.EE
.TP
Log in to a RequestBite account:
.EX
rbite \-\-login
.EE
.TP
Show the currently authenticated user:
.EX
rbite \-\-whoami
.EE
.TP
List all inspector views for the current account:
.EX
rbite \-\-views\-list
.EE
.TP
Create a new inspector view named \fImyapi\fR:
.EX
rbite \-\-views\-add myapi
.EE
.TP
Stream live requests for a view (select interactively):
.EX
rbite \-\-views\-tail
.EE
.TP
Stream live requests for a specific view ID:
.EX
rbite \-\-views\-tail abc123
.EE
.TP
Use a custom tunnel server:
.EX
rbite \-e 8080 \-\-tunnel\-server https://tunnel.example.com
.EE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/rbite/config.yaml
Per-user configuration file.
Created automatically on first run.
Contains the client identifier and, after login, OAuth credentials.
Stored with mode
.B 0600
to protect the tokens.
Do not share this file.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred (invalid flags, network failure, authentication error, etc.).
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs and feature requests at:
.br
.I https://github.com/requestbite/rbite/issues
.SH AUTHORS
The RequestBite team (https://requestbite.com)
